# Turbulent Interstellar medium in galaxies

**One line description of the data:**  Turbulence in interstellar medium in various evolution stages of galaxies.

**Longer description of the data:**  These simulations are a turbulent fluid with gravity model interstellar medium in galaxies. These fluids make dense filaments, which will form new stars. The timescale and frequency of making new filaments are varied depending on the strength of cooling. It is parametrized by the amount of metal (metallicity), density, and temperature.

**Associated paper**: [[Hirashima et al. 2023b](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.08460)]

**Domain scientist**: Keiya Hirashima (The University of Tokyo/CCA) [[WEBSITE](https://kyafuk.github.io/utokyo-hirashima/index.html)]

**Code or software used to generate the data**: ASURA-FDPS (Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics) [[Github](https://github.com/FDPS/FDPS), TBA]

**Equation**: $\begin{align}
P&=(\gamma-1) \rho u \\
\frac{d \rho}{dt} &= -\rho \nabla \cdot \bm{v} \\
\frac{d^2 \bm{r}}{dt^2}  &= -\frac{\nabla P}{\rho} + \bm{a}_{\rm visc}-\nabla \Phi \\
\frac{d u}{dt} &= -\frac{P}{\rho} \nabla \cdot \bm{v} + \frac{\Gamma-\Lambda}{\rho}
\end{align}$
where $P$, $\rho$, and $u$ are the pressure. $r$ is the position, $a_{\rm visc}$ is the acceleration generated by the viscosity, $\Phi$ is the gravitational potential, $\Gamma$ is the radiative heat influx per unit volume, and $\Lambda$ is the radiative heat outflux per unit volume.



[ADD GIF OF THE SIMULATION]

# About the data

Dimension of discretized data: $50\times 64\times 64\times 64$ (Cubes of $64\times 64\times 64$ with 50 timesteps).

Fields available in the data: ['pressure', 'Vx', 'Vy', 'Vz', 'density', 'temperature']

Number of trajectories: 900 (9 parameters sets $\times$ 100 runs).

Estimated size of the ensemble of all simulations: $792$ GB

Grid type: unifrorm grid.

Initial conditions: $900$ random seeds generated using https://github.com/amusecode/amuse/blob/main/src/amuse/ext/molecular_cloud.py (Virialized isothermal gas sphere with turbulence following the velocity spectrum $E(k) \propto k^{-2}$, which is Burgers turbulence (Burgers 1948 and Kupilas+2021 for reference [ADD IT KEIYA]))

Boundary conditions: open boundary conditions.

Simulation time-step: $2,000$~$10,000$ years

Data are stored separated by ($\Delta t$): 0.02 free fall time [KEIYA ADD MEANING]

Total time range ($t_{min}$ to $t_{max}$): 1 Free Fall time (=$L^3/GM$); $L=(\rho / \rho_0)^(1/3) 60$ pc, $\rho_0=44.5/cc$, $M=1,000,000$ Msun


Spatial domain size ($L_x$, $L_y$, $L_z$): [KEIYA ADD TABLE]

Set of coefficients or non-dimensional parameters evaluated: Initial temperature $T_0$=\{10K, 100K, 1000K\}, Initial number density of hydrogen $\rho_0=$\{44.5/cc, 4.45/cc, 0.445/cc\}, metallicity (effectively strength of cooling) $Z=\{Z_0, 0.1Z_0, 0\}$


Approximate time to generate the data: $600,000$ node ours for all simulations, ~$50,000$ node hours for one simulation.

Hardware used to generate the data and precision used for generating the data: up to 1040 CPU cores per run.

# What is interesting and challenging about the data:

What phenomena of physical interest are catpured in the data: Verify the star formation models in parameter space, i.e star formation rate, distribution of new stars, mass distribution [ADD KEIYA].

How to evaluate a new simulator operating in this space: The new simulator should be able to detect potential regions of star formation / potential number of newborn stars, because star formation regions are very dense and need very small timesteps, which results in a massive number of calculation steps.
